---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/leetcode-questions/lc-465-optimal-account-balancing/","title":"LC 465. Optimal Account Balancing","tags":["backtracking","dfs","lc-medium"]}
---


>[!summary]+ Contents
>```toc
>style: number
>min_depth:1
>max_depth:6
>```

# Description
This problem is also similar to the subset-sum problem or 0-1 knapsack.

You are given an array of transactions `transactions` where `transactions[i] = [fromi, toi, amounti]` indicates that the person with `ID = fromi` gave `amounti $` to the person with `ID = toi`.

Return _the minimum number of transactions required to settle the debt_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** transactions = [[0,1,10],[2,0,5\|0,1,10],[2,0,5]]
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:**
Person #0 gave person #1 $10.
Person #2 gave person #0 $5.
Two transactions are needed. One way to settle the debt is person #1 pays person #0 and #2 $5 each.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** transactions = [[0,1,10],[1,0,1],[1,2,5],[2,0,5\|0,1,10],[1,0,1],[1,2,5],[2,0,5]]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:**
Person #0 gave person #1 $10.
Person #1 gave person #0 $1.
Person #1 gave person #2 $5.
Person #2 gave person #0 $5.
Therefore, person #1 only need to give person #0 $4, and all debt is settled.

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= transactions.length <= 8`
-   `transactions[i].length == 3`
-   `0 <= fromi, toi < 12`
-   `fromi != toi`
-   `1 <= amounti <= 100`

# Minimum number of transfers
Since minimizing the number of transfers turned out to be a hard problem in Section 6.2, one cannot do much better than try all possibilities. In this case, that means inspecting all partitions whose parts have zero balance sums, and finding the one with maximum number of parts. In vie w of the lower bounds (28) and (30), there is an opportunity for branch-and-bound. There are clear relationships to multiple knapsacks and bin packing.
# Brute Force
# Intuition

>[!danger]+ Intuition

# Implementation
```python
def minTransfers(self, transactions):
        debt = defaultdict(int)
	    # count the debt of each person after all transaction
        for t in transactions:
            debt[t[0]]-=t[2]
            debt[t[1]]+=t[2]
        
        pid = list(debt.keys())
        
        def bactrack(i):
	        # if debt of current person is settled, continue
            while(i<len(pid) and debt[pid[i]]==0):
                i+=1
            if i==len(pid): 
                return 0
            
            r = math.inf
            for j in range(i+1,len(pid)):
                if debt[pid[i]]*debt[pid[j]]<0:
                    # settle j with i
                    debt[pid[j]]+=debt[pid[i]]
                    r=min(r,1+backtrack(i+1))
                    # backtrack
                    debt[pid[j]]-=debt[pid[i]]
            return r
        
        return bactrack(0)
```

>[!example]+ 

# Reducing to the 3-Partition Problem which is NP-complete
One could imagine that for small values of the balances, an efficient dynamic programming solution exists, as with the knapsack problem. However, in general, even that is not possible, since the well-known problem 3-Partition is NP-complete in the strong sense, and it can be transformed to minimizing the number of transfers as follows.

First, the definition of the 3-Partition problem: Given are a positive integer K and a set S of $3m$ items $x$ with positive integer size s(x) such that K/4 < s(x) < K/2 and $\sum_{x∈S} s(x) = mK$. The question is whether S can be partitioned into m disjoint sets $S_i$ for 1 ≤ i ≤ m with $\sum_{x∈S} s(x) = mK$. Note that on account of the restrictions on s(x), each $S_i$ contains exactly three items. 

This situation can be translated into the following transfer minimization problem: There are m negative balances of value −K each, and 3m positive balances of value s(x). These balances take at least m transfers to settle. If it can be done in exactly m transfers, then that solution corresponds to a partition of S into m sets $\sum_{x∈S} s(x) = mK$, which is also a solution to the instance of 3-Partition. If it cannot be done in exactly m transfers (but requires more transfers), then there is no such partition, and the instance of 3-Partition cannot be solved. Hence, minimizing the number of transfers is at least as difficult as 3-Partition

# Related
