---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/leetcode-questions/lc-560-subarray-sum-equals-k/","title":"LC 560. Subarray Sum Equals K","tags":["prefix-sums","lc-medium"]}
---


>[!summary]+ Contents
>```toc
>style: number
>min_depth:1
>max_depth:6
>```

# Description
Find total number of subarrays that sum up to k.
A subarray is a contiguous **non-empty** sequence of elements within an array.
# Brute Force
# Intuition

>[!danger]+ Intuition

# Implementation

Think about it this way: you're given a list of 'hops' you've taken down a road: 1, 2, 2, 0, 3, 2, 5. Initially you hopped 1 meter, then 2, and 2 again, then 0 meters etc.

You are then asked: how many of these hops travelled 5 meters consecutively? The answer is 6:

             _
         ___
       _____
     _____     
________
______
[1,2,2,0,3,2,5]
Rather than working with individual hop data, let's think of the total distance we travelled.

Work with accumulation values

So our total distance travelled at each hop is:

nums:          1,  2,  2,  0,  3,  2,  5
accumulation:  1,  3,  5,  5,  8,  10, 15
This is something that trips me up often with DP questions: you can often end up working in a totally different solution space. We are no longer concerned with our input values.. only their accumulation values. That can take quite a leap of the imagination (no pun intended).

Could i hop back 'k'?

Let's add our starting point 0 to the accumulator, think of it as the starting point. This 'total distance travelled' data is invaluable, because we can ask it questions, namely:

0, 1, 3, 5, 5, 8, 10, 15
|
|
Q: have i travelled 5 meters yet
A: nope
0, 1, 3, 5, 5, 8, 10, 15
   |
   |
Q: have i travelled 5 meters yet
A: nope
0, 1, 3, 5, 5, 8, 10, 15
      |
      |
Q: have i travelled 5 meters yet
A: nope
0, 1, 3, 5, 5, 8, 10, 15
         |
         |
Q: have i travelled 5 meters yet
A: ah yes you have
Let's think of another question to ask:

0, 1, 3, 5, 5, 8, 10, 15
x........-
         |
         |
Q: if i hop back 5 meters, do i land on a hop
A: yes
acc - k

In other words, the question we are asking is: is there an accumulation value equal to acc - k.

Let's count the 'hits':

0, 1, 3, 5, 5, 8, 10, 15
x........x
x...........x
      x........x
         x..x......x
               x......x
Now it gets a little trickier. When we travel 10 meters, and ask do i land on a hop if i travel 5 meters back? the answer is: actually you could land on two hops. Since there is a 0 in the array, there are two subarrays that add up to the same accumulation value. We need to account for that.

An easy to understand implementation

from itertools import accumulate

def subarraySum(nums, k):
    total = 0
    accum = [0] + [*accumulate(nums)]
    for i, acc in enumerate(accum[1:]):
        total += accum[: i + 1].count(acc - k)
    return total
We begin by adding out starting position 0 to our accumulation array (when we hop back, it's valid to land on the starting position). We then iterate over our accumulate (barring 0).

We then ask if i hop back k meters, how many valid hops do i find?. This works, but is highly inefficient.

A more efficient implementation

from collections import Counter
from itertools import accumulate

def subarraySum(nums, k):
    count, total = Counter({0: 1}), 0
    for acc in accumulate(nums):
        total += count[acc - k]
        count[acc] += 1
    return total
A more efficient implementation is to count the acc (distance travelled) values in a counter, on line 8 as we go along (as we iterate over accumulate). This is purely for the O(1) lookup.

We initialise the counter with {0:1} since if we land on our starting position, we've made a valid hop.

We'll want to perform the lookup (ask the question, on line 7) before adding our accumulation value (distance) to the counter.

```python
def subarraySum(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        prefix_sums = Counter()
        prefix_sums[0] = 1
        cur = 0
        count = 0
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            cur += nums[i]
            count += prefix_sums[cur-k]
            prefix_sums[cur] += 1
        return count
```

>[!example]+ 


# Related
