---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/leetcode-questions/lc-904-fruit-into-baskets/","title":"LC 904. Fruit Into Baskets","tags":["lc-medium","sliding-window"]}
---


>[!summary]+ Contents
>```toc
>style: number
>min_depth:1
>max_depth:6
>```

# Description
You are visiting a farm that has a single row of fruit trees arranged from left to right. The trees are represented by an integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i]` is the **type** of fruit the `ith` tree produces.

You want to collect as much fruit as possible. However, the owner has some strict rules that you must follow:

-   You only have **two** baskets, and each basket can only hold a **single type** of fruit. There is no limit on the amount of fruit each basket can hold.
-   Starting from any tree of your choice, you must pick **exactly one fruit** from **every** tree (including the start tree) while moving to the right. The picked fruits must fit in one of your baskets.
-   Once you reach a tree with fruit that cannot fit in your baskets, you must stop.

Given the integer array `fruits`, return _the **maximum**number of fruits you can pick_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** fruits = [1,2,1]
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** We can pick from all 3 trees.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** fruits = [0,1,2,2]
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** We can pick from trees [1,2,2].
If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees [0,1].

**Example 3:**

**Input:** fruits = [1,2,3,2,2]
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:** We can pick from trees [2,3,2,2].
If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees [1,2].

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`
-   `0 <= fruits[i] < fruits.length`
# Brute Force
# Intuition

>[!danger]+ Intuition
>Keep track of frequencies in the current sliding window. The moment we exceed the frequencies, move the start of the window up and decrement for each of the elements until we reach the valid number of frequencies again.
>Update the max_count during every iteration (not just until we reach k+1 sized windows)

# Implementation
```python

```

>[!example]+ 


# Related
