---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/leetcode-questions/lc-90-subsets-ii/","title":"LC 90. Subsets II","tags":["lc-medium","backtracking"]}
---


>[!summary]+ Contents
>```toc
>style: number
>min_depth:1
>max_depth:6
>```

# Description
Find all subsets where nums can contain duplicates.

# Intuition

>[!danger]+ Intuition
>Duplicates occur when you omit the first element and include the second element (in the next recursion call) for two identical elements.
>The key here is to not stop backtracking (because we would otherwise skip this subset) but to increase 'i' until we reach a different element. This also requires sorting.

Another way to build subsets with duplicates:
	Whenever the element under consideration has duplicates, we add one of the duplicate elements to all the existing subsets to create new subsets. For the rest of the duplicates, we only add them to the subsets created in the previous step. By convention, whenever a value is encountered for the first time, we add it to all the existing subsets. Then onwards we add its duplicates only to the subsets created in the previous step.

## Time Complexity

O($n*{2^n}$): $2^n$ because we have two branching options (include or not) and the $n$ comes from making a deep copy of the subset after n-1 branches.

The recursion call stack occupies at most O(n) space. The output list of subsets is not considered while analyzing space complexity.
# Implementation
```python
def subsetsWithDup(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:
	nums.sort()
	res = []
	n = len(nums)
	def backtrack(i, combination):
		if i >= n:
			res.append(combination.copy())
			return
		combination.append(nums[i])
		backtrack(i+1, combination)
		combination.pop()   
		while i + 1 < n and nums[i] == nums[i+1]:
			i += 1
		backtrack(i+1, combination)
	backtrack(0, [])
	return res
```

>[!example]+ 

Similar to 40. Combination Sum II
# Related
